Tiber upgrade (#259)
autonity/docs.autonity.org: concepts/staking/index.md

Reviewer: The changes from `code formatting` to $MathJax markup$ for variables here and in other pages is a good idea, it looks more appropriate and consistent with other text blocks that make use of equations more heavily.

Staking is open - any network participant is able to purchase stake token and bond stake by [delegation](/glossary/#delegation) to validators. 

Stakers are financially rewarded by Auton [staking rewards](/concepts/staking/#staking-rewards) and [Newton inflation rewards](/concepts/staking/#newton-inflation-rewards).

Staking rewards are distributed to [delegated](/glossary/#delegated) stake that is actively backing consensus. That is, to the subset of validator nodes participating in the [consensus committee](/glossary/#consensus-committee). Stake delegators to committee member validators receive a share of those rewards in proportion _pro rata_ to their share of the stake bonded to the committee.

> Newton inflation rewards are distributed to [participating](/glossary/#participation-rate) stake at the end of each epoch by the Newton [inflation mechanism](/glossary/#inflation-mechanism). The newton inflation reward is [automatically bonded](/glossary/#autobond) by the protocol to the validator nodes where [participating](/glossary/#participation-rate) Newton is staked. Stake delegators receive a reward in proportion to the amount of Newton they have staked. Newton [inflation rewards](/glossary/#inflation-rewards) accrue to all bonded stake irrespective of whether it is active in the current committee or not.

Reviewer 2: The last sentence needs to be changed, since inflation rewards are given to active committee members only

Author: Correction made in commit 51fa4d128a6d3e2c728e6925ae18b0dbe4201e77

> Newton inflation rewards are distributed to [participating](/glossary/#participation-rate) stake active in the consensus committee at the end of each epoch by the Newton [inflation mechanism](/glossary/#inflation-mechanism). The newton inflation reward is [automatically bonded](/glossary/#autobond) by the protocol to the validator nodes where [participating](/glossary/#participation-rate) Newton is staked. Stake delegators receive a reward in proportion to the amount of Newton they have staked.

Reviewer: newton or Newton?

Author: This is capitalized as the Newton inflation mechanism is a specific thing. In the sense the "Newton inflation mechanism" is a proper noun, whereas "inflation mechanism" is the class of inflation mechanisms. Hence, "Newton" not "newton" here.

This tokenomic mechanism ensures that a validator's Liquid Newton tokens remain fungible as they are issued over time: the amount of Liquid Newton issued on bonding has a value matching that of the Newton being bonded.

::: {.callout-note title="Note that autobonding does not mint Liquid Newton" collapse="false"}

> [Newton inflation](/concepts/protocol-assets/newton/#total-supply-and-newton-inflation) emissions for delegated stake are [autobonded](/glossary/#autobond) by protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Newton inflation](/concepts/protocol-assets/newton/#total-supply-and-newton-inflation) rewards are [autobonded](/glossary/#autobond) by protocol.
```

- How to [Claim Staking Rewards](/delegators/claim-rewards/).

## Newton inflation rewards
Newton [inflation rewards](/glossary/#inflation-rewards) are a distribution of newly minted newton by the Newton [inflation mechanism](/glossary/#inflation-mechanism) to all holders of bonded stake [participating](/glossary/#participation-rate) in securing the [Autonity network](/glossary/#autonity-network).

For more detail see the [Newton](/concepts/protocol-assets/newton/) concept and [Total supply and newton inflation](/concepts/protocol-assets/newton/#total-supply-and-newton-inflation).

### Reward distribution

> Newton [inflation rewards](/glossary/#inflation-rewards) are minted and distributed to stakers at the end of each epoch by the Newton [inflation mechanism](/glossary/#inflation-mechanism). On emission the newton inflation reward is [automatically bonded](/glossary/#autobond) by the protocol to the validator nodes where [participating](/glossary/#participation-rate) Newton is staked. The bonded stake balances of the individual stake delegators (i.e. for [delegated](/glossary/#delegated) and [self-bonded](/glossary/#self-bonded) stake) is incremented accordingly to reflect the inflation received.

Reviewer: > Newton inflation rewards are a distribution of newly minted newton by the Newton inflation mechanism...

Not sure about capitalization for newton or Newton.

As for inflation mechanism vs Inflation Mechanism, I would suggest the former is a generic description of a mechanism, the latter is a reference to the Autonity mechanism specifically.

Author: The first 2 paragraphs follow the comments made earlier - see https://github.com/autonity/docs.autonity.org/pull/259#discussion_r2100604028 and https://github.com/autonity/docs.autonity.org/pull/259#discussion_r2100613432.

Same for the first 2 instances in paragraph 3, but the last instance in paragraph 3 is wrong - that should be "newton" not "Newton".

Corrected in commit c0e4306d0a03361c6b54596116a8f96c1dbb2994.

Autonity implements a [liquid staking](/concepts/staking/#liquid-staking) model and Liquid Newton is minted for [delegated](/glossary/#delegated) stake. Minting Liquid Newton is an autonomous protocol-only function.

::: {.callout-note title="Note" collapse="false"}

> Alice submits a [`bond()`](/reference/api/aut/#bond) tx that is processed and included in a block at time $T$, where a `BondingRequest` object for the necessary voting power change is also created. Newton is locked at $T$.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alice submits a [`bond()`](/reference/api/aut/#bond) tx that is processed and included in a block at time $T$, where a `BondingRequest` object for the necessary voting power change is also created. Newton is burnt at $T$.
```

> The bonding request is tracked in memory for application at the end of the epoch in which $T$ was processed. At this point, the validator's bonded stake is increased, and Liquid Newton is issued to Alice in the validator’s Liquid Newton ERC20 contract. Actual bonding is then executed at $T$ + remainder of the epoch. Liquid Newton issuance is delayed and not tradable while bonding is pending.

Reviewer 2: I feel like the last two sentences could be moved in the previous paragraph, since they refer to the period of time in between bonding tx being mined and the epoch's ending.

Or we could even straight out remove them.

Author: Yes, that does read better. Reworded to this:

```
::: {.callout-note title="Note" collapse="false"}
Alice submits a [`bond()`](/reference/api/aut/#bond) tx that is processed and included in a block at time $T$, where a `BondingRequest` object for the necessary voting power change is also created. Newton is burnt at $T$. Actual bonding is then executed at $T$ + remainder of the epoch. Liquid Newton issuance is delayed and not tradable while bonding is pending.

The bonding request is tracked in memory for application at the end of the epoch in which $T$ was processed. At this point, the validator's bonded stake is increased, and Liquid Newton is issued to Alice in the validator’s Liquid Newton ERC20 contract.
:::
```

Commit: e96b3207fcdc02eddc5268d4883ae4a2fe6fe986

  - the amount of stake to reduce the unbonding pool by and Alice's share of the unbonding pool is calculated
  - the amount of Newton bonded to the validator is reduced by the unbonding amount, consequently reducing the validator's voting power

Then, at the end of the epoch in which the unbonding period $(T+1 + unbonding~period)$ expires, Newton redemption (i.e. 'release') occurs and the Newton that is due is minted to Alice's Newton account.

Note that the amount of Newton released to Alice may be less than the original unbonded amount if the validator has been slashed between $T$ and the end of the [epoch](/glossary/#epoch) in which the [unbonding period](/glossary/#unbonding-period) expires.
:::

## Slashing

Bonded stake is subject to economic [slashing penalties](/glossary/#slashing-penalty) if misbehavior by the staked validator node when a member of the [consensus committee](/glossary/#consensus-committee) is detected by an Autonity accountability protocol:

- [Accountability fault detection protocol (AFD)](/concepts/afd/) for failing to follow consensus rules 
- [Omission fault detection protocol (OFD)](/concepts/ofd/) for failing to participate in consensus 

> - [Oracle accountability fault detection protocol (OAFD)](/concepts/oafd/) for failing to submit accurate price reports to the oracle protocol on-chain. 

Reviewer: capitalization issue?

Author: @aiman - capitalisation reviewed and made consistent throughout Concepts section as agreed in your comnent https://github.com/autonity/docs.autonity.org/pull/259#discussion_r2102212199.  Commit 4dc0780e19c351728dc824ad20187847234b1f2b.

Author: Further fixes in commits dfb84273d3582fd3d2a26342642bbe14a9882b99 and 2cc1eb9d5214030bd5af2836e3f9d258420a3ca0.

### Economic penalties

Economic penalties vary in severity and are applied according to the type of fault detected and the risk created for network security. 

Penalties are applied at epoch end and take the form of slashing of [bonded](/glossary/#bond) stake token per Autonity's [Penalty-Absorbing Stake (PAS)](/glossary/#penalty-absorbing-stake-pas) model, loss of [staking rewards](/glossasry/#staking-rewards) and [inflation rewards](/glossary/#inflation-rewards), and loss of future earning opportunity by temporary or permanent barring from the consensus committee ('[jailing](/glossary/#jailing)').

The extent of the penalty varies according to the severity of the fault committed. For the economic disincentives of accountability penalties see:

| Accountability protocol | Disincentive penalty |
|:-- |:--|
| [Accountability fault detection protocol (AFD)](/concepts/afd/) | [slashing penalties](/concepts/afd/#slashing-penalties) |
| [Omission fault detection protocol (OFD)](/concepts/ofd/) | [inactivity penalties](/concepts/ofd/#inactivity-penalties-1)|

> | [Oracle accountability fault detection protocol (OAFD)](/concepts/oafd/) | [outlier penalties](/concepts/oafd/#outlier-penalties)|

Reviewer: capitalization issue?

Author: Fixed.  Consistently capitalised as discussed in comment https://github.com/autonity/docs.autonity.org/pull/259#discussion_r2102212199.  Commit 4dc0780e19c351728dc824ad20187847234b1f2b.

Author: Further fixes in commits dfb84273d3582fd3d2a26342642bbe14a9882b99 and 2cc1eb9d5214030bd5af2836e3f9d258420a3ca0.
